Enhancing Data Integrity with OpenSSL Digital Signatures in Kali Linux

In today's digital landscape, ensuring data integrity and authenticity is crucial. As a cybersecurity professional, I recently implemented a cryptographic solution using OpenSSL in Kali Linux to generate public and private key pairs, sign a document, and verify its integrity. This project showcases my understanding of encryption, digital signatures, and secure communication.

Step-by-Step Process Using OpenSSL

1. Updating Kali Linux

Before starting, ensure your Kali Linux system is up to date:

sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y

2. Generating the RSA Key Pair

We begin by creating a private key:

openssl genpkey -algorithm RSA -out private_key.pem

To confirm the private key was generated:

ll
cat private_key.pem

Next, extract the public key from the private key:

openssl pkey -in private_key.pem -pubout -out public_key.pem

Verify the public key:

cat public_key.pem

3. Creating a Sample Contract Document

We create a text file that will be signed and verified.

echo "Hi, my name is Mamurhomu" > contract.txt
cat contract.txt

4. Signing the Document with a Private Key

Using the SHA-256 hashing algorithm, we sign the document:

openssl dgst -sha256 -sign private_key.pem -out signature contract.txt

Checking if the signature file exists:

ls
cat signature  # (This may produce unreadable characters since it’s a binary file)

5. Verifying the Document's Authenticity

We use the public key to verify the document:

openssl dgst -sha256 -verify public_key.pem -signature signature contract.txt

If the document remains unchanged, the output will confirm:

Verified OK

6. Testing for Tampering

Let's modify the document and check integrity:

vi contract.txt  # Edit the content

Now, verify the document again:

openssl dgst -sha256 -verify public_key.pem -signature signature contract.txt

If any changes were made, the output will indicate a verification failure:

Verification Failure

This demonstrates how cryptographic signatures ensure document integrity and detect tampering.

Commands Summary

1. openssl version  
2. sudo openssl  
3. openssl genpkey -algorithm RSA -out private_key.pem  
4. ll  
5. cat private_key.pem  
6. openssl pkey -in private_key.pem -pubout -out public_key.pem  
7. ll  
8. ls  
9. cat public_key.pem  
10. echo "Hi my name is Mamurhomu" > contract.txt  
11. ls  
12. cat contract.txt  
13. openssl dgst -sha256 -sign private_key.pem -out signature contract.txt  
14. ls  
15. cat signature  
16. openssl dgst -sha256 -verify public_key.pem -signature signature contract.txt  
17. vi contract.txt  
18. openssl dgst -sha256 -verify public_key.pem -signature signature contract.txt  

Conclusion

This project highlights my ability to work with OpenSSL for cryptographic security, a fundamental skill in cybersecurity. By implementing digital signatures, organizations can ensure data authenticity, detect unauthorized modifications, and enhance security.

🚀 I'm excited to explore more security solutions! If you're looking for a cybersecurity professional passionate about securing digital assets, feel free to connect with me!

